Just to clear up the PS1 save stuff for any younger fans.  The PS1 had zero internal memory for save states, and therefore had to rely completely on memory cards to save.  The memory cards could be used to save multiple different games, however the PlayStation brand memory card only came with 1mb of memory standard, so they could fill up pretty quick, therefore most players never kept more than one or two save files per game they played and then would overwrite them.

Because of the memory card system, every single time you saved it had to be a player driven action in which the player accessed the 'save' option from the menu.  The playstation would then (by compliance reqirement from Sony) ask the player to choose the memory card slot to save to (1 or 2), the system would then check the slot to be sure that there was a memory card in there, check for adequate space on the card, and then parse the space left on the card based on the save file size of the game you were playing and let you know how many 'save blocks' you had left open on the memory card.  As I said, there was absolutely no saving to your disc or any internal memory on the playstation, so even though these features could be used later on if playing a PS1 game on a PS3, no game developed in this era would have utilized that functionality due to Sony's compliance requirements.  

Auto saving as a feature was not implemented until the PS3, as even the PS2 required memory cards ( boosted to 265mb standard, but not cross compatible with PS1 games), and the memory card system required a number of checks and player confirmations for the save to happen.  Saves also took a good few seconds to happen on most games, so you would see the save menu freeze up a bit and in many cases they would use a progress bar for saving.  Again, by compliance requirement from Sony, every game had the dialog "Saving, please do not remove memory card or power off your system" or something to that effect, every single time a save was happening.

Saving as a feature was very finnickey and therefore it was very VERY common to accidentally corrupt your data or memory card with an improper save.

It now actually even strikes me that it was actiually very VERY rare for this era of game to have an ability to save your game at any point the player chose.  Most games had specific save points in the game that you had to access in order to save your game.  I remember being blown away the first time I was able to play a game that let me save at any time of my choosing, and that wasn't until college, which was decently into the PS2 era.

Sorry for the long rant, just trying to be as detailed as possible.