I'm not exactly arguing against the integrity of this theory, as it seems fairly obvious to me that Pestcop is a performance or work of fiction, but I do think the reasoning here is muddled and may misunderstand the way in which video game consoles work.

Specifically the first bit, I think you are confusing resolution with bit size.  While bit size is a means of measuring processing power (basically determining the size and number of calculations a system can handle in a single operation), and does affect the ability to display things on screen (bit depth would affect audio rendering, color management etc), it wouldn't in any way affect a system's ability to handle distortion or fuzziness etc.  That would be the output resolution of the sytem itself.  This means that the 'distortion' you may be expecting of the PS1 era is the result of the maximum output resolution of the system istelf (which I believe was 480i), however I believe if the game were to be played on an emulator or a console with a better resolution output (ps3 specifically), then the recorded footage would look exactly as sharp as the resolution of the artwork utilized in the game itself.

I believe only a 16bit depth is required for CD quality audio, and I know that a 24bit depth is required to process 'true color'.  So really, even though bit size among consoles has consistantly gone up, it has mostly affected the processing power to be utilized by the game itself than the graphics capabilities.  Beyond 32bit processing, RAM became much more of a concern that bit size.  Keep in mind that even windows hadn't upgraded to a 64 bit system depth until only a few iterations ago.

All that said, as someone who is an art director and works on video games I can say that my first inclination while watching the video was to scrutinize whether or not they stepped out of the bounds of what could be accomplished on the PS1.  The only thing that hit me as questionable off the bat was the dynamic lighting that occurs around the character in the underworld.  Not saying that it ISN'T possible to achieve on the PS1 (I could think of a few techniques I'd try to get the proper effect), but I can't say for sure that it would be.  Specifically I'm thinking that having something with a dynamic lighting range with true falloff would be very hard to acomplish, especially for an unknown studio since 3D graphics were really in their infancy with this generation.

Sorry for the rant, and I'm not trying to rip into anyone by any means, I just joined the community because I truly love discussing this stuff haha.